How to - Swap Between OpenAI and AOAI (#40427)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/how-to/swap-between-openai-and-aoai.md

---
title: "Swap between OpenAI and AOAI"
description: "Demonstrates how to swap between OpenAI and Azure OpenAI (AOAI) using the Semantic Kernel SDK for .NET."
author: haywoodsloan
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/09/2024

#customer intent: As a .NET developer, I want to swap between OpenAI and Azure OpenAI (AOAI) so that I can choose the AI service that's best for me.

---

# Swap between OpenAI and AOAI

This article demonstrates how to swap between the OpenAI and [Azure OpenAI](/azure/ai-services/openai/overview) (AOAI) services using the [Semantic Kernel SDK](/semantic-kernel/overview). Additionally, it shows how to switch your .NET projects to the Semantic Kernel SDK from the [AOAI client library](/dotnet/api/overview/azure/ai.openai-readme).

## Prerequisites

* An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
* [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/visual-studio-sdks)
* [`Microsoft.SemanticKernel` NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.SemanticKernel)
* [Create and deploy an Azure OpenAI Service resource](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/create-resource)

> 

Reviewer: Do we want to include a little bit more intro context here that describes some reasons why they might want to switch, or some conceptual differences/steps between the two to consider for any migration?

Author: Since this is a how-to I first focused on the scenarios that Bruno specified. It might make sense to describe some benefits in switching to SK, which I can grab from their docs. 

As for the conceptual differences between the two, I think that would need a much deeper dive to understand the two SDKs better first.

Reviewer: These are good points, yes maybe just a little bit info of the benefits or reasons you might want to switch would be good since it is a focused how-to.

---
title: "Swap between OpenAI and AOAI"
description: "Demonstrates how to swap between OpenAI and Azure OpenAI (AOAI) using the Semantic Kernel SDK for .NET."
author: haywoodsloan
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/09/2024

#customer intent: As a .NET developer, I want to swap between OpenAI and Azure OpenAI (AOAI) so that I can choose the AI service that's best for me.

---

# Swap between OpenAI and AOAI

This article demonstrates how to swap between the OpenAI and [Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/openai/overview) (AOAI) services using the [Semantic Kernel SDK](https://learn.microsoft.com/semantic-kernel/overview). Additionally, it shows how to switch your .NET projects to the Semantic Kernel SDK from the [AOAI client library](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/ai.openai-readme).

## Prerequisites

* An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
* [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/visual-studio-sdks)

> * [`Microsoft.SemanticKernel` Nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.SemanticKernel)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [`Microsoft.SemanticKernel` NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.SemanticKernel)
```

> * [Create and deploy an Azure OpenAI Service resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/create-resource)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Create and deploy an Azure OpenAI Service resource](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/create-resource)
```

> ## Switch from the AOAI client library to Semantic Kernal SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Switch from the AOAI client library to Semantic Kernel SDK
```

> The following section shows how to add the Semantic Kernal SDK to your .NET project and use it to replace the AOAI client library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following section shows how to add the Semantic Kernel SDK to your .NET project and use it to replace the AOAI client library.
```

> To begin add the [Semantic Kernal Nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.SemanticKernel) to your project. The following command will add this package to the .NET project in your current working directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To begin, add the [Semantic Kernel NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.SemanticKernel) to your project. The following command adds this package to the .NET project in your current working directory:
```

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.SemanticKernel
```

> The Semantic Kernel SDK supports both prompt and chat completions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Semantic Kernel SDK supports both prompt and chat completions.
```

### Implement prompt completions with Semantic Kernel

A basic implementation of prompt completions with the AOAI client library might look like the following:

```csharp

> // === Retrieve the secrets saved during the Azure deployment ===

Reviewer 2: Can you put code snippets into separate code files with a project file, so compilation is checked automatically as part of the PR?

Author: @alexwolfmsft is this something we want to do now or save for latter?

// === Starting the conversation with a user message ===
var userGreeting =
"""
Hi! 
Apparently you can help me find a hike that I will like?
""";

Console.WriteLine($"User: {userGreeting}");
chatHistory.AddUserMessage(userGreeting);

// === Get the first response, display it, and add it to the chat history ===
var assistantResponse = await service.GetChatMessageContentAsync(chatHistory, executionSettings);
Console.WriteLine($"Assistant: {assistantResponse.Content}");
chatHistory.Add(assistantResponse);

// === Providing the user's request ===
var hikeRequest =
"""
I live in the greater Montreal area and would like an easy hike. I don't mind driving a bit to get there.
I don't want the hike to be over 10 miles round trip. I'd consider a point-to-point hike.
I want the hike to be as isolated as possible. I don't want to see many people.
I would like it to be as bug free as possible.
""";

Console.WriteLine($"User: {hikeRequest}");
chatHistory.AddUserMessage(hikeRequest);

// === Get the next response and display it ===
assistantResponse = await service.GetChatMessageContentAsync(chatHistory, executionSettings);
Console.WriteLine($"Assistant: ${assistantResponse.Content}");
```

> ## Swap between OpenAI and AOAI with Semantic Kernal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Swap between OpenAI and AOAI with Semantic Kernel
```

The following section shows how to swap your .NET project between OpenAI and AOAI services when using the Semantic Kernel SDK.

> Before swapping to AOAI ensure you have followed the prerequisite steps to [create and deploy an Azure OpenAI Service resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/create-resource). Once you have created an AOAI resource you'll need retrieve the endpoint URL; this can be done through the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) or with the following Azure CLI command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before swapping to AOAI, ensure you have followed the prerequisite steps to [create and deploy an Azure OpenAI Service resource](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/create-resource). Once you've created an AOAI resource, you'll need retrieve the endpoint URL; you can do that through the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) or with the following Azure CLI command:
```

```azurecli
az cognitiveservices account show \
--name <myResourceName> \
--resource-group  <myResourceGroupName>
```

Swapping between OpenAI and AOAI simply requires changing the initial service configuration. For example, consider the following configuration for using OpenAI:

```csharp
// === Retrieve the secrets saved when signing up for OpenAI ===
var config = new ConfigurationBuilder().AddUserSecrets<Program>().Build();
var model = config["OPENAI_GPT_NAME"];
var key = config["OPENAI_API_KEY"];

// === Create a Kernel containing the OpenAI Chat Completion Service ===
var kernel = Kernel.CreateBuilder()
    .AddOpenAIChatCompletion(model, key)
    .Build();

// === Alternatively, directly create the OpenAI Chat Completion Service ===
var service = new OpenAIChatCompletionService(model, key);
```

> Semantic Kernel can be similarly configured to use AOAI with either API key or token based authentication:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Semantic Kernel can be similarly configured to use AOAI with either an API key or token-based authentication:
```

> ### Using AOAI with API key authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use AOAI with API key authentication
```

> To begin you'll need to retrieve the key from your deployed AOAI resource. This can be done through the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) or with the following Azure CLI command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To begin, you'll need to retrieve the key from your deployed AOAI resource. You can retrieve the key through the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) or with the following Azure CLI command:
```

```azurecli
az cognitiveservices account keys list \
--name <myResourceName> \
--resource-group  <myResourceGroupName>
```

The following configuration uses AOAI with API key authentication:

```csharp
// === Retrieve the secrets obtained from the Azure deployment ===
// Must use the deployment name not the underlying model name
var config = new ConfigurationBuilder().AddUserSecrets<Program>().Build();
var endpoint = config["AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT"];
var deployment = config["AZURE_OPENAI_GPT_NAME"];
var key = config["AZURE_OPENAI_KEY"];

// === Create a Kernel containing the AOAI Chat Completion Service ===
var kernel = Kernel.CreateBuilder()
    .AddAzureOpenAIChatCompletion(deployment, endpoint, key)
    .Build();

// === Alternatively, directly create the AOAI Chat Completion Service ===
var service = new AzureOpenAIChatCompletionService(deployment, endpoint, key);
```

> ### Using AOAI with token based authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use AOAI with token-based authentication
```

> To begin you'll need to add the [Azure Identity Nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) to your project. The following command will add this package to the .NET project in your current working directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To begin, you'll need to add the [Azure Identity NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) to your project. The following command adds this package to the .NET project in your current working directory:
```

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Azure.Identity
```

> The following configuration uses AOAI with token based authentication:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following configuration uses AOAI with token-based authentication:
```

```csharp
// === Retrieve the secrets obtained from the Azure deployment ===
// Must use the deployment name not the underlying model name
var config = new ConfigurationBuilder().AddUserSecrets<Program>().Build();
var endpoint = config["AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT"];
var deployment = config["AZURE_OPENAI_GPT_NAME"];

// === Create a TokenCredential instance, e.g. DefaultAzureCredential, ManagedIdentityCredential, EnvironmentCredential, etc.
TokenCredential credentials = new DefaultAzureCredential(new DefaultAzureCredentialOptions
{
    // Credential options, e.g., TenantID, ManagedIdentityClientId, etc.
});

// === Create a Kernel containing the AOAI Chat Completion Service ===
var kernel = Kernel.CreateBuilder()
    .AddAzureOpenAIChatCompletion(deployment, endpoint, credentials)
    .Build();

// === Alternatively, directly create the AOAI Chat Completion Service ===
var service = new AzureOpenAIChatCompletionService(deployment, endpoint, credentials);
```

## Related content

> * [What is Semantic Kernel](https://learn.microsoft.com/semantic-kernel/overview/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [What is Semantic Kernel](/semantic-kernel/overview/)
```

> * [Summarize text using Azure AI chat app with .NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/ai/quickstarts/quickstart-openai-summarize-text?pivots=semantic-kernel)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Summarize text using Azure AI chat app with .NET](../quickstarts/quickstart-openai-summarize-text.md?pivots=semantic-kernel)
```
